---
layout: post
title:  "Plans for Cloud Computing!"
date:   2021-09-30 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# What has evolved in Cloud computing?
> The evolution of cloud computing and the increase adoption for business, government agencies and personal use. The need for new models and technology emerged such as virtualization which improved the use of containers from physical hardware. The new service model is called Container as a Service (CaaS) which is now being offered by service providers. The rise of specialized cloud services has helped industries create an easy-to-use configuration to meet specific business requirements. The new trend from cloud computing has allowed providers to expand globally and increase support to emerging applications. Fog computing is one for the service which has been extended with this service is has made operations closer to the data sources and leverage resources on the edge for mobile base stations, gateways, network switched and routers.    
### Container as a service
> Container as a Service is a cloud service model which allows users to upload, organize, start, stop, which enables the user to manage containers, and applications. When using container-based virtualization and application programming interface CaaS helps users construct security-rich, scalable applications through on-premises data centers. The model has streamlined the constructing process for a full scaled container and application development. This service has simplified container management within the defined software infrastructures. Just like the other services CaaS includes basic resources which can be found between IaaS and PaaS which also include host systems and virtual machines. 
> When using containers, it increases the efficiency of the client’s ability to deploy solutions or innovate applications and cloud native development with microservices. The container allows clients to be flexible, and portable between environments which makes it cost efficient. Without and operating system the container requires less memory to run which enables the client to create and run several containers. Although, when running all these containers on the same server if an application crashes all the containers on the server will be affected.   
