---
layout: post
title:  "BREACH!"
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# Data Breach
> Cyber attacks on cloud computing is becoming more common and its exploits can be found on the structural components of the cloud. These weaknesses have allowed attackers to lure victims into a multi-stage attack which attackers traverses different segments of the cloud in different layers to reach the intended target. The amount of information which cloud services hold attract wondering eyes, people that are desperate, curious or have just malicious intent. The major challenges which concern cloud computing is the category of the cloud and what it pertains to. There are three layers physical application, virtual layers which each have a view on whether the layer is viewed from a service or deployment model.  
### Physical Layer
> The physical layer are components of the real-world physical resources that make up cloud infrastructure. The three main components networking, storage, and physical servers which can vulnerable if the attack is focusing one individual component and connecting to the rest. Networking devices are the backbone of communication these are usually attacked to see the availability and DOS attacks Storage components are responsible to store clod data and file system services it makes up data centers. There are two types of flavors local storage which is directly attached to the device and has access to the server each serving their own benefits. Or network storage which is a storage device connected by a network and serves as the key node giving access to an attack.  The last is a physical server which services the cloud users and achieve maximum efficiency. Attacks on the physical server are for confidential attacks which process user data and service unavailability.  
### Virtual Layer
> A virtual layer is the logical resources which support the physical layer. The layer also comprises of virtual machine that create virtual resources that are not limited to a host also allows the user to create and manipulate. The virtual layer is extremely vital to cloud computing as it is transparent to the user and collaborates with the application layer. Most of the cyber attacks are centered to physical and application layer and not the virtual components.   
### Application Layer
> With the application which is supported and hosted by the virtual layer providing resources for applications. Software as a service overlap with platform as a service helping the layer gather the resources necessary. Not all cloud implementations are through the host application and can be found directly from the host on the physical layer. Attacks will be focused on user data in SaaS and PaaS gathering information along the path and exploit the data. 
#### Reference
* Zimba, Aaron, and Victoria Chama. “Cyber Attacks in Cloud Computing: Modelling Multi-Stage Attacks Using Probability Density Curves.” International Journal of Computer Network and Information Security, vol. 10, no. 3, Modern Education and Computer Science Press, 2018, pp. 25–36, doi:10.5815/ijcnis.2018.03.04.