---
layout: post
title:  "Cloud Technology in Medicine!"
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# Telemedicine 
> During 2020 the fear of going to the doctors office for minor medical issues. Telemedicine give the access of medical attention at any moment. Although this service shouldn’t be used for emergencies it allows an open communication at a global level for health problems. Cloud computing has allowed information to be spread at high speed and globally the World Health Organization has used telemedicine to exchange information for diagnosis, treatment, disease prevention and scientific research. Using the most common categories of cloud services are using Infrastructure, Platform, Software as a service. With cloud computing it provides an on-demand service being flexible with mobile apps for when an issue comes outside of your home or for the clients with a busy schedule.

#HIPPA

> One Of the biggest concerns with Cloud computing in telemedicine would be how would the protection of medical records while in the cloud. There are electronic health records which play a critical role in protecting health records and patients’ privacy. With EHRs it is implemented in client-server manner and requires installation to a dedicated server in a physician’s office or a hospitals datacenter. Not all cloud services are created equal each have cloud-based solutions al with HIPAA compliance. The security rules require all covered entities to conduct a risk assessment to the organizations which ensures that the organization is compliant with administrative, physical and technical safeguards.    

> Ransomware is one of the biggest threats to the healthcare industry and because hospitals are seen as the most vulnerable targets. Organizations would need to make sure that systems are up to date such as performance upgrade or implementing patches. If any attacks are successful, all entities must be locked in the system as quickly as possible to further the spread of the attack. The cloud service will provide encryption for data and manage keys to see the EHR data. IT companies will implement high availability features and recovery processes to be more resilient.   

#### Reference
* Jin, Zhanpeng, and Yu Chen. “Telemedicine in the Cloud Era: Prospects and Challenges.” IEEE Pervasive Computing, vol. 14, no. 1, IEEE, 2015, pp. 54–61, https://doi.org/10.1109/MPRV.2015.19.