---
layout: post
title:  "Terraform using Loops "
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# Loops

Terraform is a declarative language which usually does not have for-loops, or if-statements that each can configure resources in modules that can create for certain users. There are several looping constructs each used in different scenarios and will all be created in a cycle block called  create_before_ destroy: 

- Count: parameter to loop over resources 

- For_each: expressions to loop over resources and inline blocks within a resource 

- For: expressions, to loop over lists and maps. 
      String directive, to loop over list and maps within a string 

Within the terraform code the following code should be placed in live/global/iam/main.tf: 

 

> provider "aws" { 
  region = "us-east-2" 
} 

> resource "aws_iam_user" "example" { 
  name = "neo" 
} 

The code will use the IAM user resource to create a new IAM user. This is an example of how this for loop will be presented as pseudo code which loops 3 times: 

> for (i = 0; i < 3; i++) { 
  resource "aws_iam_user" "example" { 
    name = "neo" 
  } 
} 

Although terraform does not have traditional procedural logical build the example of terraform code above syntax will not work. In every Terraform resource there are meta-parameters which you can use Count this is the oldest and simplest limited iteration construct in Terraform. The count construct is defined but how many copies to create of the resource. In this example it will show how it should be written in terraform code. 

> resource "aws_iam_user" "example" { 
  count = 3 
  name  = "neo" 
} 

The one issue about this code is that all IAM users will have the same name. This will cause an error since usernames must be unique. In order to ensure that each count will use a different username you will need to create a variable called count.index. This variable will allow an input variable from variables.tf which will go down the index to input a different username for each count. This will be found in live/global/iam/variables.tf in the following variable for user_names: 

> variable "user_names" { 
  description = "Create IAM users with these names" 
  type        = list(string) 
  default     = ["neo", "trinity", "morpheus"] 
} 

Within terraform count can be used for array lookups which look up members of an array using ARRAY[<INDEX>. The length function which will return the number of items in a given array will work with strings and maps and will use the following syntax length(<ARRAY>). In this example it will show how these functions work in terraform code: 

> resource "aws_iam_user" "example" { 
  count = length(var.user_names) 
  name  = var.user_names[count.index] 
} 