---
layout: post
title:  "Modules Part 2 Locals and Outputs"
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# Locals 

When using input variables to define modules inputs there are many times that you will use that variable in multiple places. These can be defined by local values within a local block in the variable.tf file. Local values will allow you to assign a name to any terraform expression to use through the modules. The name will be visible within the module and will not impact the other modules as well can’t be overridden within the module. The value of the local will be used as the following syntax: local.<NAME> 

- Here is an example used in terraform for the load-balancer listener:    


> resource "aws_lb_listener" "http" { 
>  load_balancer_arn = aws_lb.example.arn 
>  port              = local.http_port 
>  protocol          = "HTTP" 
>  # By default, return a simple 404 page 
>
>  default_action { 
>    type = "fixed-response" 
>    fixed_response { 
>      content_type = "text/plain" 
>      message_body = "404: page not found" 
>      status_code  = 404 
>    } 
>  } 
> } 
- Within Variables.tf 

>locals { 
  http_port    = 80 
  any_port     = 0 
  any_protocol = "-1" 
  tcp_protocol = "tcp" 
  all_ips      = ["0.0.0.0/0"] 
} 

# Output 

There are many useful features used within terraform that will make the automation process much easier. The most powerful feature is Auto Scaling Groups which allows the user to increase or decrease the number of servers you have running in response to load. One way to change is by using a scheduled action which will increase the number of servers during certain hours of the day. The scheduled action will be defined in the webserver-cluster module this will apply to the staging and production. To define schedule action, it will need to be added to the resources in the web-server-cluster main.tf 

The following will be added to the main.tf: 
> resource "aws_autoscaling_schedule" "scale_out_during_business_hours" { 
  scheduled_action_name = "scale-out-during-business-hours" 
  min_size              = 2 
  max_size              = 10 
  desired_capacity      = 10 
  recurrence            = "0 9 * * *" 
} 

> resource "aws_autoscaling_schedule" "scale_in_at_night" { 
  scheduled_action_name = "scale-in-at-night" 
  min_size              = 2 
  max_size              = 10 
  desired_capacity      = 2 
  recurrence            = "0 17 * * *" 
} 

In this example it allows the resource to be specific during business hours which has an increase of traffic to the server thus will need more servers. Also, it has a resource during night. The time is defined in the resource the servers will increase from 9 a.m. every day and the servers will decrease at 5 p.m. every day. Terraform can return values when using a module and then can be used in output variables.  You will also access module output variables by using the following syntax module. <MODULE_NAME>. <OUTPUT_NAME> this will set yje parameters to each resource. 

- Here is an example of using auto scaling group in output.tf 

> output "asg_name" { 
  value       = aws_autoscaling_group.example.name 
  description = "The name of the Auto Scaling Group" 
} 