---
layout: post
title:  "Ansible inventory with terraform"
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# Ansible Inventory 

Terraform is an incredibly good infrastructure as a code tool which allows a user to build complex infrastructure with code. Along with Terraform there is Ansible which is a great configuration as code and extremely popular in the open-source world. The advantages of ansible are that it is agentless which means it can be installed without an agent on any VM you want to configure. One of the files used in ansible is called inventory which contains a list of VMs that need to be configured.  

Once you have ansible set up there is a file created called inventory the starting point of creating a VM using Azure whose private IP addresses are not known before created. For this configuration we will be using an example using Azure. Once everything is set up there are terraform modules which specify the hostname of the VM. 

This is an example of variables vmhosts: 

    variable "vmhosts" { 
      type    = list(string) 
      default = ["vmwebdemo1", "vmwebdemo2"] 
    } 

Next using the network module this will compute the public registry to creat insice the VM network.  

    module "network" { 
     source = "Azure/network/azurerm" 
     resource_group_name = "rg-demoinventory" 
     subnet_prefixes = ["10.0.2.0/24"] 
     subnet_names = ["subnet1"] 
   } 

    module "linuxservers" { 
     source = "Azure/compute/azurerm" 
     resource_group_name = "rg-demoinventory" 
     vm_os_simple = "UbuntuServer" 
     nb_instances = 2 
     nb_public_ip = 2 
     vm_hostname = "vmwebdemo" 
     public_ip_dns = var.vmhosts 
     vnet_subnet_id = module.network.vnet_subnets[0] 
   } 

Within terraform configuration a Virtual network was created and subnets with two Linux VMs will have private IP addresses. The goal is to generate an inventory text file which will contain a list of hosts along with their IP adresses which have been created by Terraform.  

The following is an example of inventory file: 

    [vm-web] 
      <host1> ansible_host=1<ip 1> 
      <host2> ansible_host=<ip 2> 


To generate the ansible inventory with terraform you will perform the following steps.  
Create a new file called  template-inventory.tpl with the following content:  

    [vm-web] 
    %{ for host, dns in vm_dnshost ~} 
    ${host} ansible_host=${dns} 
    %{ endfor ~} 

When creating the template-invenetory.tpl file uses the Terraform template format in this file you will use a for loop which will allow us to loop the elements of the vm_dnshost variable. You will use the loop for each VM.  

Next will the main.tf of terraform configuration that creates a VM and generates the inventory file.   

    resource "local_file" "inventory" { 
     filename = "inventory" 
     content = templatefile("template-inventory.tpl", 
     { 
       vm_dnshost = zipmap(var.vmhosts,module.linuxservers.network_interface_private_ip) 
      }) 
     }  

Lastly, to create the VMs and generate the inventory file you will run the following commands: 

- Terraform init 
- Terraform plan 
- Terraform apply 