---
layout: post
title:  " Up in the Clouds "
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# Terraform Cloud 

With many configurations used to write in Terraform configurations and use the Terraform CLI. These can be applied from small to large corporations or projects for sharing modules and centralized deployment. Version Control System is a platform like Git to connect to a source control repository and uses an automated and centralized manner for all members. Terraform cloud is a platform which provides the functionality of the remote backend type, private modules registry, user management for a team, and remote execution of terraform configuration. There are several free plans which you can create at <https://app.terraform.io/signup/account.>

 

Here is how to start building a terraform cloud. The goal is to configure and use the remote backend for a simple terraform configuration and then execute it in local mode that is made on machine outside Terraform cloud. There are three major parts configuring local mode execution in Terraform cloud, generating a new API token, configuring, and using the remote backend. The first part of configuring local mode execution in terraform cloud workspace  demo.app settings you will need to change to execution mode option to local then save and apply changes.  

The next part is to generate a new API token to authenticate with terraform cloud.   

Within the settings tab there is demoBook tab with API tokens. 

Create an authentication token button to generate a new API token. Ensure that the token is safe once it is generated. 

Finally, the last part is to configure and use the remote backend: 

In your main.tf there needs to be a configuration with the following:  

    terraform { 
      backend "remote" { 
        hostname     = "app.terraform.io" 
        organization = "demoBook" 
        workspaces { 
         name = "demo-app" 
        } 
      } 
     }   

Next the terraform CLI configuration folder in the home directory creates a new file called terraform.rc within the file add the following: 

    credentials "app.terraform.io" { 
     token = "<your api token generated>" 
    } 

Lastly execute the workflow with the commands. Once the commands are executed the state will be stored in terraform.state this will allow a binary authentication within the cloud workspace.  

- Terraform init 

- Terraform plan  

- terraform apply 