---
layout: post
title:  "Introducing Terraform! Blog 0 2022"
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# What is terraform?  

> Terraform is a way to build, update, deploy, update, and destroy infrastructure representing infrastructure as code an important shift in mindset of how you treat operations as software. There are five broad categories of infrastructure as code which can be used as tools. These five categories are Ad Hoc Scripts, Configuration management tools, server templating tools, orchestration tools and provisioning tools. Ad Hoc scripts are a straightforward approach to automating. This takes whatever task that can be done manually and breaks it down into discrete steps and can be written in any scripting language. Configuration Management Tools are to be installed and managed on existing servers. Server templating tools are configuration management which creates an image of a server. Orchestration tools are used to create virtual machines and containers which can be managed to make hardware more efficient as well and rolling deployments. With provisioning tools this will help define the configuration, server templating and orchestration tools and create servers, databases, caches, load balancers etc.  

## What is the benefit of Infrastructure as Code? 

 > With Infrastructure as code there is a variety of software engineering practices to improve the delivery processes. Self-service this allows teams to deploy code manually the process can be automated and deploy whatever and whenever necessary. Speed and safter is the deployment process which is automated and faster with constancy. Infrastructure as code acts as documentation allowing the organization or team to understand the state and source files. Version control will help capture the history of commits and will become useful if any issues arise and help solve them. Along with version control there are validations as a practice to reduce the chances of defects as many times there are modules that will reuse codes. There are many tools which can be used in terraform and have become more popular as technology increases.  

 