---
layout: post
title:  "Starting with terraform"
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# Here are some basics!

> Terraform can provision infrastructure across public cloud providers such as Azure, Amazon web services, Google Cloud, and DigitalOcean. There are also private cloud and virtualization platforms like OpenStack and VMWare though there are many options Amazon web Services (AWS) will be the main focus as it is the popular cloud infrastructure provider with 45% of the market. There is a huge range of hosting services in AWS with amazon elastic compute cloud  (EC2), Auto scaling groups which make managing the virtual server easier. 

## AWS Account

 > Some perquisites before jumping into terraform is to set up a AWS account you will need to initially sign in as a root user you will only need root to create the other users. Once the other users are made it is recommended to not use root. In order to create a new user you will go to the IAM Console click Users this will prompt a window to input the Users information. Once all the users are created it will the show the security credentials which will be  Access key ID and Secret key these will need to be save be sure to copy into a file for safe keeping they will be used later. 

## Install Terraform 
> You can download Terraform using the Following link:
<https://www.terraform.io/>
> follow the directions for the appropriate operating system which you have. In order to make sure things are working correctly input the command terraform.

## Deploy a Server
 > Terraform code is written in HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL) using the extension (.tf) for the terraform file. The first step to using terraform is to configure the providers you wish to use by creating a main.tf file these will contain the contents of which provider you would like to use. In AWS there will be also a region which will be configure into the main.tf  within will also contain resources such as servers, databases, and load balancers. There will also be a resource called instances which will require Amazon machine Image to run EC2 instances, and instance type which is the type of EC2 instance to run and the different amount of CPU memory, disk space, and networking capacity. 

 > Once these configurations are complete you would want to run terraform init command. This will scan the code and figure out the providers you are using and download the code form them and will create a .terraform folder. Now you can have the code downloaded by running  terraform plan command. The plan will let you see what changes are done before releasing the code. Once the output is ready you can execute terraform apply command which will confirm the plan and quickly deploy the instances

> If everything as worked, you have completed the basics in configuring Terraform which will be shown on the AWS EC2 console. 