---
layout: post
title:  " Classified!"
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# Private Terraform Cloud  

When creating terraform there are modules which are publicly accessible for all terraform and git users. Private modules are hosted on an organization's private registry which are only available to those members. When using a private repository, it works like a public repository and includes support for versioning and a searchable list of available providers and modules. This will contain a terraform-azurerm-webapp repository to create a service plan, App service instance, and an Application Insights for Azure. The repository can be found in <https://github.com/mikaelkrief/terraform-azurerm-webapp>  

For this example, the user will need to create a v1.0.0 tag to publish a module in Terraform cloud’s private registry perform the following steps: 

1. In the Terraform Cloud organization click on the Modules menu located on the top bar:
<https://learning.oreilly.com/api/v2/epubs/urn:orm:book:9781800207554/files/assets/4e4f5c39-9b40-4743-8050-c2c660005c51.png>
2. Then click to add the modules:
<https://learning.oreilly.com/api/v2/epubs/urn:orm:book:9781800207554/files/assets/866bcfb0-0426-4eca-ac63-5ad0ea769fc1.png>
3. Next within the modules tab section of the wizard choose GitHub as the VCS provider which we integrated within the requirements:
<https://learning.oreilly.com/api/v2/epubs/urn:orm:book:9781800207554/files/assets/378e229c-42fb-4d15-9612-c56edbbeacab.png>
4. The next step is to choose the repository which contains the Terraform modules configuration: 
<https://learning.oreilly.com/api/v2/epubs/urn:orm:book:9781800207554/files/assets/8a113d21-1c95-4fbc-9c93-90d4d9d41e3b.png>
5. The last step is to publish the module:
<https://learning.oreilly.com/api/v2/epubs/urn:orm:book:9781800207554/files/assets/855cd3a0-4c02-466a-836c-40e53cb2abe6.png> 

Once the module has been published within the registry you can use terraform to change any configurations. When using terraform cloud locally this configuration can be changed in terraform.rc file. The configuration is written like the following: 

    module "webapp" { 
     source  = "app.terraform.io/demoBook/webapp/azurerm" 
     version = "1.0.0" 
    ... 
    } 

This shows the source property is the module identifier within the registry while the version property corresponds to the tag in the Git repository. Onces doing this the user can select whichever version by using the dropdown list in the Terraform cloud site. If there are any changes within the terraform configuration of the module the user will wat to update the version by adding a tag within the Git repository. This will allow the user and team to see the different versions if there are any issues with the currently published version.  

<https://learning.oreilly.com/api/v2/epubs/urn:orm:book:9781800207554/files/assets/4ddd5ab4-db28-4e3d-9611-81b07daae358.png>