---
layout: post
title:  "What can be done with Terrafrom CLI?"
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# Terraform CLI 

The terraform CLI is an open-source command line application provided by Hashi Corp which allows you to run different commands and subcommands that cover the Terraform workflows.  These commands can be run in any outputs. You have also run the command terraform –h which will help to see what these commands support. Some more support can show the workflow terraform console command will test the output of the code of the terraform function. Using terraform init this command will rewrite the configuration files to canonical format and style and adjust to a readable format.  

This command line can be integrated with Azure, AWS and GCP. This blog will be going over the integration with AWS. The first step will be to authenticate in AWS: 

- Static Credentials 

- Enviroment variables 

- Shared credentials/ config file 

- Code build, Elastic Container Service, and Elastic Kubernetes Service roles,  

- Elastic compute cloud instance metadata service and IMDSv2 

You will need a Key ID and a Secret key with theses you will perform the following steps: 

1. Log into your AWS console using the IAM root Login and Password  

2. Go to Security Credentials and create a new access key  

3. Both Keys can be stored in the enviroment variable by executing the following commands in the CLI 

  - export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="AKIAIMQ4GX4XAJR7ZS2A" 

  - export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="qQi4E0DQItP2utPE..." 

4. The next step will be to create a configuration file with the name ending with .tf with providers. 

5. Run the command terraform init which will then download the AWS providers and then store it in a folder .terraform. Once the initial set up the aws can be managed using the .tf configuration files. 

After authenticating Terraform AWS the next is to provision aws service using terraform an example of using these provisions to create an AWS virtual private cloud these will explore the resource code block for the AWS provider. 