---
layout: post
title:  "Resources"
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# How to secure resources?  

Using infrastructure as a Code requires a lot of attention with the integration of a continuous integration/ continuous delivery pipeline. These resources can be automatically deleted along with its important data by changing the property of a terraform resource which requires deletion and recreating of the resources. The main problem within companies' projects concerns the resources that contain data. For this example, the app will be run in an azure service and azure applications instance.  The resource application insights in this example contains the logs and metrics of an application which the web app and should not be deleted automatically. This scenario has decided to change the nomenclature of their resources. With that changed there is a need to update their terraform configuration with the new nomenclature. Once the changes have been made when the user runs terraform plan the command will see the name change and will require a deletion of the Application Insights instance that contains important log metrics. 
<https://learning.oreilly.com/api/v2/epubs/urn:orm:book:9781800207554/files/assets/1e8e9f1e-07eb-4b60-87a8-e5937c148bba.png>

The following will show how to prevent the deletion of this resource by terraform.  
1. Inside the Terraform configuration of the Application Insights resource, add the lifecycle block. When adding the lifecycle block it contains properties that allow interactions with resource management which will prevent the destruction of the specified resources.  

  resource "azurerm_application_insights" "appinsight-app" { 
   ... 
   lifecycle { 
    prevent_destroy = true 
    } 
  } 

 2. Within variable.tf change the default value of the app_name variable with another name for the Application Insights such as MyApp2-DEV1  

 3. Run terraform apply this will show the result in the following. 

<https://learning.oreilly.com/api/v2/epubs/urn:orm:book:9781800207554/files/assets/e2e838e1-1894-48cf-9302-261b5187caca.png>

When using prevent_destroy prevents resources from being deleted in Terraform configuration. Although there are times which a resource must be deleted, when executing the terraform apply command then the prevent_destroy prevents the changes to all resources in Terraform. Many times, it is best to separate the configurations which will put sensitive resources that must not be destroyed in one folder separate from Terraform state file and other resource folders. 