---
layout: post
title:  "Working Terraform in GitHub "
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# GitHub and Terraform 

> Like many programmers there needs to be a place where your code can be safely stored and edited. GitHub allows a user to upload their code into their site and configure code as needed. When creating a repository, you can configure the repository to have a .gitignore file which will create a list of files which are too big to upload into GitHub. When all the configurations are done, and you apply the command terraform apply the terraform will keep track of all the resources and set the configuration files and deploys the code. After the command it will create files such as:  
- .terraform 

- *.tfstate 

- *.tfstate.backup 
> These files each play a significant role in the local host with .terraform it uses as a temporary scratch directory. The file *.tfstate which is also used to store the state of the directory and should not be share. The main reason to not share and use locally is that the team will not only need permission to access the terraform state files they will need to be in a shared location. It can be too easy to forget to pull the latest changes, which is why it is very important not to share state files. The locking state files which will cause problems if two users are running terraform at the same time then the race conditions will corrupt the files and lead to conflicts. The isolating state files are used to make changes to the infrastructure and these when shared will need to be defined the same. Using GitHub will allow users to use the information needed with updated and working configurations. Because all terraform state files are stored in plain text the variables used can be exposed which is why using instances to create a database will store username and passwords for the state files. 