---
layout: post
title:  "Modules Basics"
date:   2021-10-14 22:33:15 -0700
categories: blog
---
# What are Modules?

Within Terraform a user can put code inside a Terraform module, the modules can be reused throughout your code and can be copied in various stages. Modules are the key ingredient to writing reusable, maintainable, and testable code creating a library of modules to share within the company will help construct the entire infrastructure.   
- Example of Module Web server Cluster

> provider "aws" {region = "us-east-2"}    
> module "webserver_cluster" { 
>  source = "../../../modules/services/webserver-cluster" 
> } 

Once you are ready the next command that you will run is terraform init, terraform plan, then terraform apply. Before running the apply command there are issues which can occur in the webserver_cluster  module the names are hardcoded which will create confilting errors. It should also be noted that hardcoding sensitive information can compromise your security. To fix this issue you will nee to add configurable inputs to the webserver-cluster. By using input variables this will allow the sensitive information to remain anonymous. Creating a folder called  variable.tf this will allow the user to input variable to that file and it will be called into the code as neccesary.  
- Example  variables.tf 

> variable "cluster_name" { 
    description = "The name to use for all the cluster resources" 
    type        = string 
} 

> variable "db_remote_state_bucket" { 
  description = "The name of the S3 bucket for the database's remote state" 
  type        = string 
} 

> variable "db_remote_state_bucket" { 
  description = "The name of the S3 bucket for the database's remote state" 
  type        = string 
}
 
> variable "db_remote_state_key" { 
  description = "The path for the database's remote state in S3" 
  type        = string 
} 

This wil show the implentation of variables in the main.tf 

> resource "aws_security_group" "alb" { 
  name = "${var.cluster_name}-alb" 
   ingress { 
    from_port   = 80 
    to_port     = 80 
    protocol    = "tcp" 
    cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"] 
  } 
   egress { 
    from_port   = 0 
    to_port     = 0 
    protocol    = "-1" 
    cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"] 
  } 
} 

Once all the variables are se the nect is to update the terraform_remote_state data source to the db_remote_state_bucket and db_remote_state_key this will ensuire that the state is reading from the right environment.  